Doc gRPC scenarios (#1032)
microsoft/reverse-proxy: docs/docfx/articles/grpc.md

# Proxing gRPC

## Introduction

> [gRPC](https://grpc.io/) is a common protocol used to exchange messages between clients and servers. It's based on top of HTTP (mainly HTTP/2) and can be proxied through YARP. While YARP doesn't need to be aware of the message formats (proto files), you do need to make sure the right protocols are enabled for the incoming server and outgoing client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[gRPC](https://grpc.io/) is a language agnostic, high-performance Remote Procedure Call (RPC) framework. It's built on top of HTTP/2 and can be proxied through YARP. While YARP doesn't need to be aware of the gRPC messages, you do need to make sure the right HTTP protocol is enabled. gRPC requires HTTP/2 and gRPC calls will fail if YARP isn't correctly configured to send and receive HTTP/2 requests.
```

Reviewer: IMO keep things simple by just talking about standard gRPC over HTTP/2. That's what most people use. Mention gRPC-Web under its own section.

> ## Configure the Incoming Server

Reviewer 2: I've a bit stumbled upon the terms "incoming server" and "outgoing client" because didn't get at the first glance that it's about YARP's components. Could we somehow clarify that?

> ## Configure the Incoming Server

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Configure the YARP Endpoint
```

Author: How about `Configure YARP's Incoming Protocols`?

> gRPC requires HTTP/2 for most scenarios. HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 are enabled by default on ASP.NET Core servers but https (TLS) is required to negotiate HTTP/2. HTTP/2 over http (non-TLS) is only supported on Kestrel and requires specific settings.  For details see [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/grpc/aspnetcore#server-options).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
gRPC requires HTTP/2 for most scenarios. HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 are enabled by default in Kestrel (YARPs front end) but HTTP/2 requires https (TLS) so YARP needs to be listening on a https:// URL. 

HTTP/2 over http (non-TLS) is only supported on Kestrel and requires specific settings.  For details see [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/grpc/aspnetcore#server-options).
```

Author: Why eliminate the other servers? We have people using them.

This shows configuring Kestrel to use HTTP/2 over http (non-TLS):
```json
{
  "Kestrel": {
    "Endpoints": {
      "http": {
        "Url": "http://localhost:5000",
        "Protocols": "Http2"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Configure the Outgoing Client

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Configure the Outgoing Connection
```

YARP automatically negotiates HTTP/1.1 or HTTP/2 for outgoing proxy requests, but only for https (TLS). HTTP/2 over http (non-TLS) requires additional settings. Note outgoing protocols are independent of incoming ones. E.g. https can be used for the incoming connection and http for the outgoing one, this is called TLS termination. See [here](proxyhttpclientconfig.md#httprequest) for configuration details.

This shows configuring the outgoing proxy request to use HTTP/2 over http. Note the `VersionPolicy` settings requires .NET 5.0:
```json
"cluster1": {
  "HttpRequest": {
    "Version": "2",
    "VersionPolicy": "RequestVersionExact"
  },
  "Destinations": {
    "cluster1/destination1": {
      "Address": "http://localhost:6000/"
    }
  }
},
```

## gRPC-Web

> [gRPC-Web](https://grpc.io/docs/platforms/web/basics/) is a version of gRPC that's compatible with HTTP/1.1. It can be proxied by YARP's default configuration without any special considerations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[gRPC-Web](https://grpc.io/docs/platforms/web/basics/) is an alternative wire-format for gRPC that's compatible with HTTP/1.1.

* [`application/grpc`](https://github.com/grpc/grpc/blob/master/doc/PROTOCOL-HTTP2.md) - gRPC over HTTP/2 is how gRPC is typically used.
* [`application/grpc-web`](https://github.com/grpc/grpc/blob/master/doc/PROTOCOL-WEB.md) - gRPC-Web modifies the gRPC protocol to be compatible with HTTP/1.1. gRPC-Web can be used in more places. gRPC-Web can be used by browser apps and in networks without complete support for HTTP/2. Two advanced gRPC features are no longer supported: client streaming and bidirectional streaming.

gRPC-Web can be proxied by YARP's default configuration without any special considerations.
```

Reviewer: Copied and pasted some content from https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/grpc/supported-platforms?view=aspnetcore-5.0#wire-formats

I'm guessing people who are configuring YARP won't necessarily know which type of gRPC is going through the proxy, so including the content-type's and specs gives them enough info to figure out by looking at logs.

# Proxing gRPC

## Introduction

[gRPC](https://grpc.io/) is a language agnostic, high-performance Remote Procedure Call (RPC) framework. It's built on top of HTTP/2 and can be proxied through YARP. While YARP doesn't need to be aware of the gRPC messages, you do need to make sure the right HTTP protocol is enabled. gRPC requires HTTP/2 and gRPC calls will fail if YARP isn't correctly configured to send and receive HTTP/2 requests.

## Configure YARP's Incoming Protocols

> gRPC requires HTTP/2 for most scenarios. HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2 are enabled by default on ASP.NET Core servers (YARP's front end) but they require https (TLS) for HTTP/2 so YARP needs to be listening on a `https://` URL.

Reviewer 3: do we want to point at the URLs property or the other one (i get confused as there are two)

Author: It's different in each server so it's better not to be that specific.
